-----------------------------MySQL Installation - Windows----------------------------------------------
1. Check your system specifications by using the search feature on your desktop to find "System Information".
2. Download the required MySQL software from the MySQL website and choose the MySQL Installer MSI Option.
3. Follow the installer guidelines with the following considerations:
    - Choose the password "root" for your root user password
    - When asked about which authentication method you should pick, DO NOT pick the first method and instead select Use Legacy Authentication method

For "Windows Service", make sure you have the "Configure MySQL Server as a Windows Service" and "Start MySQL Server at System Startup" options selected (checked)

The installer will configure your Windows system to run the MySQL Server automatically on startup, listening on the default port 3306 
as well as establish the required environment variables to run MySQL tools from a Windows shell.

Open a MySQL shell from CMD/PowerShell to make sure everything is working correctly: mysql -u root -p and enter "root" when promted.

    STEP BY STEP PROCESS:

Note: Install the latest version compatible with Windows. If that does not work, try installing an older version.

MySQL Installer 8.0.34
Click Download on Windows (x86 32-bit), MSI Installer

Choosing a Setup Type
Select Full (Installs all included MySQL products and features.)
Next

MySQL Community Downloads
Select No thanks, just start my download

Download
MySQL Server 8.0.34 x64 Ready to download (5 other things also ready to download)
Click Execute

Installation
List of things Ready to Install
Click Execute

Installation
List of things status Complete with checks 
Click Next

Product Configuration
3 things Ready to Configure
Click Next

Type and Networking
Config Type: Development Computer
Connectivity
TCP/IP checked
Port 3306
X Protocol Port: 33060
Click Next

Authentication method
Select Use Legacy Authentication Method (Retain MySQL 5.x Compatibility)
Click Next

Accounts and Roles
MySQL Root Password: root
Repeat Password: root
Click Next

Windows Service
Check Configure MySQL Server as a Windows Service
Windows Service Name: MySQL80
Check Start the MySQL Server at System Startup
Run Windows Service as ... 
Select Standard System Accounts
Click Next

Server File Permissions
Select Yes, grant full access to the user running the Windows Service (if applicable) and the administrators group only. Other users and groups will not have access.
Click Next

Apply Configuration 
8 things should have checks
The configuration for MySQL Server 8.0.34 was successful. Click Finish to continue.
Click Finish

Click Next or Finish through the next few dialog prompts until you get to the step below. Just enter "root" for username and "root" for password
as done previously in the installer. This will check to see if MySQL server is set up correctly.

Connect To Server
Check MySQL Server 8.0.34 Port 3306 Arch... x64 Type Stand-alone Server Status Connection succeeded. (in green)
User name: root
Password: root
Check
Click Next

Click 'next' through the following few menu options until you see the installation complete screenshot. 

Installation Complete
Check Start MySQL Workbench after Setup
Check Start MySQL Shell after Setup
Click Finish

By checking those boxes, MySQL Workbench and Shell will start after the installation wizard is closed.

    TROUBLESHOOTING:

Problem: Running mysql in CMD/PowerShell gives the following error: 'mysql' is not recognized...

Solution: Make sure you have an Environment Variable PATH to your MySQL executables.
Likely to be in C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0\bin

